Recommend podman desktop (#39692)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/podman.adoc

:topics: podman,devops,tooling
include::_attributes.adoc[]

> https://podman.io/[Podman] is a daemonless and rootless container engine for developing, managing, and running OCI Containers on Linux, Windows and OSX

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://podman.io/[Podman] is a daemonless and rootless container engine for developing, managing, and running OCI Containers on Linux, Windows and macOS
```

> Podman's approach varies dependent on the operating system you are using and also varied over time dpeendent on version of Podman. Thus albeit Podman comes with a cli based installer and available in various custom package installers (like brew or Linux package mangers) our default recommendation is to use the official Podman Desktop installer. This will ensure you get the best Developer Joy experience and support for your operating system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Podman's install approach varies depending on the operating system you are using, and the required steps also change over time depending on the version of Podman. Although Podman comes with a cli-only installer and is available in various package installers (like brew or Linux package managers) our default recommendation is to use the official Podman Desktop installer. This will ensure you get the best Developer Joy experience and support for your operating system.
```

Reviewer 2: "CLI-based installer" implies the installer is a CLI. The CLI installer is actually GUI which installs a CLI, which I tried to capture with "cli-only installer", but there may be a clearer phrasing.

== Installing Podman
Podman's approach varies dependent on the operating system you are using and also varied over time dpeendent on version of Podman. Thus albeit Podman comes with a cli based installer and available in various custom package installers (like brew or Linux package mangers) our default recommendation is to use the official Podman Desktop installer. This will ensure you get the best Developer Joy experience and support for your operating system.

=== macOS
See https://podman-desktop.io/downloads/ for the latest version of Podman Desktop or pick the version that suits your operating system from the list below:

> Containers are really Linux.

Author: this list is not bad and not sure if should remove it or work it into the "podmans approach varies dependent on operating system above"

Reviewer 3: restored in a different format

> - https://podman-desktop.io/windows/[Windows]

Reviewer 2: As well as these links, should we also include the copy-pastable brew/winget/flatpak commands? They're pretty prominent on https://podman-desktop.io/downloads/, and mean a lot less clicks for people.

As such, Linux containers cannot run natively on macOS or Windows.
Therefore, the containers must run in a Linux virtual machine (VM), and a Podman client interacts with that VM.
A native hypervisor subsystem and virtualization software is used to run the Linux VM on the OS, and then containers are run within this VM.
In Podman, this is known as the Podman machine, and it is built into the tool.
- https://podman-desktop.io/linux/[Linux]
- https://podman-desktop.io/macos/[MacOS]
- https://podman-desktop.io/windows/[Windows]

macOS users can install Podman through https://brew.sh/[Homebrew].
Once you have set up `brew`, you can use the `brew install` command to install Podman and `docker-compose`:

[source,bash]

> ----

Author: the whole install as rootful is the default in podman desktop today afaik.

brew install podman
brew install docker-compose
podman machine init -v $HOME:$HOME
PODMAN_VERSION=`podman -v | sed 's/[a-zA-Z ]*//'`
sudo /opt/homebrew/Cellar/podman/$PODMAN_VERSION/bin/podman-mac-helper install
podman machine set --rootful
podman machine start
alias docker='podman'
----
== Known/Past issues with Podman

If you're using Podman 4.1 or higher, you don't need the `-v $HOME:$HOME` volume mount.
=== Testcontainers privileges

> If you're using Mac M1, an extra step is required to https://edofic.com/posts/2021-09-12-podman-m1-amd64[make AMD64 images work]:

Author: this should no longer be necessary but not sure what steps to run to verify it?
like - i don't run this and afaics things work...what is the part that would not work?

> export TESTCONTAINERS_RYUK_DISABLED=true #not recommended - see above!

Reviewer 2: Two comments - I wonder if we should maybe not continue to recommend this? The podman folks strongly recommend that we don't.

Also, the 'see above' doesn't make sense anymore because the explanatory links have been removed. It would need to be 'see below'.

Reviewer 3: this is no longer required since test containers now sets privileged to true by default.
